Transductional analysis was applied to the Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant PAO14 (hnc-1). This mutant can utilize L-histidinol as sole source of carbon and nitrogen and has a 60-fold increased histidinol dehydrogenase (HDH) content (Dhawale, Creaser &amp; Loper, 1972). Transductional analysis was carried out using 18 histidine-requiring mutants to see where the hnc-1 locus maps in relation to the structural genes of histidine biosynthesis. The hnc-1 marker cotransduced with group IV genes at 97 to 100 % and not at all with group I, which is known to be the structural gene for HDH. The data obtained in the studies of Km (histidinol) and Km (NAD), and the effect of pH and temperature on the HDH activity from PAO1 and PAO14 are in full agreement with the genetic data that the hnc-1 mutation is not in the structural gene for HDH. It is suggested that hnc-1 may be a mutation in a regulatory gene affecting HDH synthesis in PAO14 and may map close to his-IV whose function in histidine biosynthesis is not known.
Bacteriocins produced by six strains of Rhizobium trifolii were found to be of the relatively low molecular weight, non-phage type. The molecular weights ranged from approximately 1-8 X 105 to 2-0 X 105. All were of protein composition, as indicated by buoyant density (1-32 to 1-34 g/cm3) in CsC1 and by sensitivity to proteolytic enzymes. They were resistant to RNAase but sensitive to DNAase. The six bacteriocins could further be separated into two subgroups on the basis of sensitivity to extremes of pH, binding to filter membranes, activity spectrum on sensitive strains of R. trifolii, and possibly mode of action on sensitive bacteria. Bacteriocin production occurred spontaneously during the early-to mid-exponential phase of bacterial growth in broth culture.
The gamma haemolysin of Staphylococcus aureus \'Smith 5R\' was produced on Dolman-Wilson agar overlain with cellophane. Maximal yields of crude lysin with titres of 2000 to 4000 haemolytic units/ml were obtained within 24 h at 37 degrees C in 10% (v/v) CO2 in air, on medium adjusted to pH 7-0. The crude lysin was purified 2700-fold (with 75% recovery) by ultrafiltration, gel filtration and ammonium sulphate fractionation. The specific activity of the lysin was 10(5) haemolytic units/mg protein after the dialysed active precipitate was extracted with NaCl and reprecipitated with ammonium sulphate. Purified gamma lysin was homogeneous by disc electrophoresis and immunoelectrophoresis.
Arginine and methionine transport by Aspergillus nidulans mycelium was investigated. A single uptake system is responsible for the transport of arginine, lysine and ornithine. Transport is energy-dependent and specific for these basic amino acids. The Km value for arginine is 1 X 10(-5) M, and Vmax is 2-8 nmol/mg dry wt/min; Km for lysine is 8 X 10(-6) M; Kt for lysine as inhibitor of arginine uptake is 12 muM, and Ki for ornithine is mM. On minimal medium, methionine is transported with a Km of 0-I mM and Vmax about I nmol/mg dry wt/min; transport is inhibited by azide. Neutral amnio acids such as serine, phenylalanine and leucine are probably transported by the same system, as indicated by their inhibition of methionine uptake and the existence of a mutant specifically impaired in their transport. The recessive mutant nap3, unable to transport neutral amino acids, was isolated as resistant to selenomethionine and p-fluorophenylanine. This mutant has unchanged transport of methionine by general and specific sulphur-regulated permeases.
Aphids transmitted poly-L-ornithine (PLO)-treated tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) when given acquistion and inoculation access periods as brief as 30 s and 2 min, respectively; the ability to transmit was lost within 90 min. Aphids without claws were able to transmit the virus. Transmission thus seems similar to that of nonpersistent viruses. The ratio of virus to polyamino acid, as well as the KCl concentration, markedly affected transmission. Transmission was best from mixtures which contained 250 mug/ml TMV, 2-5 MUG/ML PLO (mol. wt. 120000) and 0-6 M-KCl. A similar mixture favoured transmission when poly-L-lysine (mol. wt. 85000) was substituted for PLO, but with poly-L-lysine (mol. wt. 30 000) it was necessary to decrease the KCl to 0-3 M to obtain transmission. Less KCl (0-08 to 0-24 M) also favoured aphid transmission of PLO-treated potato virus X and tobacco rattle virus. PLO-treated TMV ultracentrifuged in the presence of, and resuspended in, 0-6 M-KCl remained aphid  transmissible while PLO-treated virus in 2 M-DCl, which favours greater dissociation of the virus-PLO complex, was transmissible neither before nor after sedimentation by ultracentrifuging, and resuspension in 0-6 M-KCl. these results show that transmissibility is not due to a permanent alteration of the virus by PLO and indicate that the formation of a TMV-PLO complex is required for transmission. Sequential acquisition experiments suggest that PLO may act by binding TMV to receptor sites in aphids. However, the possibility that PLO affects the infection process was not ruled out.
It has been shown that particles of Vi bacteriophage III catalyse deacetylation of O-acetyl pectic (polygalacturonic) acid, a structural analogue of Vi polysaccharide (Vi antigen). Using this substrate, and determining the acetic acid liberated by gas-liquid chromatogrphy, a method for the estimation of Vi phage deacetylase activity has been developed. Purified particles of Vi phage III were exposed to a variety of mildly dissociative reagents and conditions, and then tested for plaque-forming and for deacetylase activity. They have also been inspected under the electron microscope. Osmotic shock, and incubation in the presence of ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (greater than or equil 0-01 M), or of L-arginine (0-25 M), were found to cause disintegration of the virions into empty head capsids, deoxyribonucleic acid, and base plates still carrying the spikes. The mixtures of viral fragments exhibited an increased deacetylase activity. Using zonal sedimentation and ion exchange chromatography, the phage fragments obtained by treatment with ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid have been fractionated and the base plates isolated. Amongst the viral components, these structures showed the highest specific deacetylase activity. They had the shape of six-pointed stars (about 9-5 nm inner, and 14-5 nm outer diam.) with a central hole or plug (approximately 3 nm), carrying six spikes, roughly cylindrical organelles of approx. 11 X 4 nm, one at each of the points. Of the polypeptides of six sizes (P.1, about 153,000 daltons; P.2, 91,000; P.3, 71,000; P.4 56,500; P.6, 22,000), detected in whole Vi phage III virions by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, only two, P.2 and P.3 were found in the base plates.
The authors measured regional cerebral 133xenon (133Xe) blood flow (rCBF), intraventricular pressure (IVP), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pH and lactate, systemic arterial blood pressure (SAP), and arterial blood gases during the acute phase in 23 comatose patients with severe head injuries. The IVP was kept below 45 mm Hg. The rCBF was measured repeatedly, and the response to induced hypertension and hyperventilation was tested. Most patients had reduced rCBF. No correlation was found between average CBF and clinical condition, and neither global nor regional ischemia contributed significantly to the reduced brain function. No correlation was found between CBF and IVP or CBF and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP). The CSF lactate was elevated significantly in patients with brain-stem lesions, but not in patients with "pure" cortical lesiosn. The 133Xe clearance curves from areas of severe cortical lesions had very fast initial components called tissue peaks. The tissue peak areas correlated with areas of early veins in the angiograms, indicating a state of relative hyperemia, referred to as tissue-peak hyperemia. Tissue-peak hyperemia was found in all patients with cortical laceration or severe contusion but not in patients with brain-stem lesions without such cortical lesions. The peaks increased in number during clinical deterioration and disappeared during improvement. They could be provoked by induced hypertension and disappeared during hyperventilation. The changes in the tissue-peak areas appeared to be related to the clinical course of the cortical lesion.
Deans of Nursing who choose to be administrators of the Health Sciences may very well enhance Nursing programs by facilitating the nursing faculty to become leaders through offering service courses in Health, may thereby help to cut the high cost of nursing education, and may make a contribution to other Health majors by sharing their faculty\'s special expertise in Health theory.
A basal diet or a basal diet plus 1% of cholesterol and 0.33% cholic acid was fed to rats for varying lengths of time and (1) the activities of liver phosphoenolpyruvate-carboxykinase (PEP-CK), tyrosine transaminase (TT), and serine dehydratase (SD); (2) the rate of total hepatic protein synthesis and (3) the concentration of hepatic reduced glutathione (GSH) were quantitated. The specific activity of PEP-CK was significantly depressed by cholesterol plus cholic acid feeding, while the specific activity of TT was unchanged. No significant effect of dietary cholesterol plus cholic acid was found on the total liver activities. In contrast, SD specific activity was increased 3-fold. The rate of (U-14C)-L-leucine incorporation into total TCA precipitable protein following ingestion of cholesterol plus acid was significantly reduced when the data were expressed as dpm (U-14C)-L-leucine/mg protein. After correcting this expression for specific radioactivity of the liver tissue free leucine pool, no significant effect of dietary cholesterol plus cholic acid on hepatic protein synthesis existed. In fact, the amount of 14C-leucine incorporated into protein on a total liver basis was 50% greater for the cholesterol group. On a per gram of liver basis, the concentration of GSH in the liver of rats fed a cholesterol plus cholic acid diet was significantly decreased. Considering the liver enlargement in rats fed cholesterol plus cholic acid, total organ GSH was found to be significantly greater than for rats fed a basal diet.
TTP accelerated ATP-induced superprecipitation of actomyosin in as low a concentration as 30 muM and decreased light scattering by actomyosin. These effects could also be observed in the same way, but to a lesser degree, by addition to TDP. Myosin was able to hydrolyze TTP to TDP, but some important differences were confirmed between myosin TTPase and ATPase. Myosin TTPase was inhibited by actin and showed a much larger Km than that of ATPase. TTP significantly inhibited myosin B ATPase and ATP greatly inhibited myosin B TTPase. These findings suggest that the accelerating effect of TDP and TTP may be due to the binding of thiamine phosphate to the regulatory site of myosin followed by a change in its physical chemical property, rather than due to the competitive binding of thiamine phosphate to the catalytically activity site of myosin.
The effects of pancuronium bromide infusion on the uptake and release of [14C] noradrenaline (14C-NA) by the isolated, perfused rat heart and on the chronotropic and inotropic activity of the isolated heart were evaluated. Hearts were removed from animals under light ether anaesthesia, transferred to a modified Langendorff perfusing apparatus and perfused with Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate solution at a rate of 5 ml min-1. The effect of pancuronium on the uptake of noradrenaline was determined by perfusing hearts for 5 min with perfusate containing various concentrations of pancuronium and 200 ng ml-1 of 14C-NA. After 5 min pancuronium-treated hearts contained less 14C-NA. The degree of reduced uptake increased with increasing concentrations of pancuronium. In addition, the combination of pancuronium perfusion and electrical stimulation (15 mA for 10 ms at 4 Hz) blocked the 50 min uptake of 14C-NA by the heart to a greater degree than either factor separately. The release of noradrenaline was determined after perfusing hearts with 14C-NA followed by perfusion with solution containing pancuronium but no 14C-NA for 1 h. Pancuronium infusion did not significantly alter the release of 14C-NA from the heart after 1 h of perfusion. The infusion of pancuronium caused a reduction in both the rate and strength of myocardial contraction of the isolated heart which was reversed by perfusion with perfusate free of pancuronium. Following perfusion with pancurnium the rate and strength of contraction of the heart was seen to "rebound" above pre-pancuronium values for a short period. The rebound of myocardial rate and contraction may have been due to the presence of myocardial noradrenaline previously blocked from reuptake by pancuronium since hearts removed from reserpinized animals did not demonstrate "rebound."
1. Electrical and mechanical activities of the longtitudinal muscle of the dog antrum were recorded with the double sucrose-gap technique. 2. The muscle exhibited spontaneous action potentials which consisted of a spike-like potential which, after a brief and partial repolarization, was followed by a negative-going, plateau-type potential. In 97% of the preparations, no tension changes were produced by spontaneous action potentials. 3. Tetrodotoxin, atropine, alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor antagonists, and H1 and H2 receptor blocking agents had no effect on the action potential. It was concluded that the action potential was myogenic in origin. 4. The mean frequency of the action potential at 37+/- 0.5 degrees C was 1.0/min+/-0.06 (s.e. of mean, n=92) and the mean duration 7.1+/-0.2 sec (s.e. of mean, n=11). 5. Steady depolarizing current increased whereas hyperpolarizing current decreased the frequency of the action potential. 6. Length-tension relations were studied. In twelve strips, the average resting, passive, tension at LO was 570 mg. The active force of isometric contraction produced by acetylcholine increased with strip length up to a maximum, then decreased wtih further increased in length. There were no mechanical responses to pentagastrin. 7. Pentagastrin had two sites of action. On smooth muscle, it increased the frequency of the action potential in a dose dependent fashion. Threshold concentraions ranged from 2X10-14 to 10-11M. The ED50 was 2X10-10M. The maximum response, 5.4/min, was reached at 10-8M. Pentagastrin also released acetylcholine from intramural cholinergic nerves. 8. Pentagastrin reduced the amplitude and duration of the action potential.
The internal pH of crab muscle fibres was measured using recessed-tip pH-sensitive micro-electrodes. Immediately following electrode penetration the mean internal pH was 7-21 +/- 0-02 (S.E. of mean) and the mean membrane potential was -64-9 +/- 0-6 mV (S.E. of mean). If H+ ions were passively distributed across the fibre membrane the internal pH would have been 6-39. 2. The internal pH tended to rise before stabilizing at a mean value of 7-27 +/- 0-02 (S.E. of mean). The difference between immediate and stabilized values is highly significant and suggests acid injury on electrode penetration. 3. Changing the membrane potential or external pH had only small, slow effects on internal pH. 4. External CO2 caused a large and rapid decrease in internal pH. With low concentrations of CO2, the effect was dependent on the initial pH as predicted by the Law of Mass Action. During a long exposure to 2-65% CO2 at pH 7-5, the internal pH returned slowly to its previous value, suggesting active transport of H+ (or OH- or HCO3-) ions across the fibre membrane. 5. The internal buffering power calculated from the response to 2-65% CO2 was 47-3 +/- 2-8 slykes (m-equiv H+/pH unit per l.) (S.E. of mean).
Oviducal fluid was collected by cannulation from four cows and by irrigation from fifteen slaughtered cows. The proteins in the fluid were examined by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at pH 4-5 and pH 8-9, isoelectric focusing on polyacrylamide, immunodiffusion, immunoelectrophoresis, affinity chromatography and gel filtration. The macromolecular components found were mainly serum proteins but small amounts of other proteins were detected in oestrous and dioestrous samples by electrophoresis at pH 8-9 following fractionation of the fluid by gel filtration or affinity chromatography. Small amounts of cathodically migrating proteins were detected directly by electrophoresis at pH 4-5 in dioestrous samples but not in oestrous samples. Determination of glycosidase activities revealed that the levels at oestrus were similar to the levels detected in serum. At dioestrus, the activities of B-N-acetylgalactosaminidase and beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase were elevated.
Approximately 1 week was required to stabilize the extragonadal sperm reserves in stallions ejaculated daily for 10 weeks. The true daily sperm output of a stallion was equal to the mean daily sperm output of seven ejaculates +/- 1-35 X 10(9) spermatozoa. Mean concentrations of spermatozoa/ml and number of spermatozoa/ejaculate were higher (P less than 0-01) for X1 and X3/week ejaculation frequencies than for a X6/week frequency. Sperm output/week was nearly identical for a X6/week frequency. Sperm output/week was nearly identical for the X3 and X6 frequencies and higher (P less than 0-01) than the X1 frequency. Increase of ejaculation frequency from one to two ejaculates/day twice weekly significantly (P less than 0-01) raised the output of spermatozoa/week. Gel-free semen volume, spermatozoa/ml, and number of spermatozoa/ejaculate were higher (P less than 0-01) in the first, than in the second, ejaculate. Collection of semen on alternate days would be a practical ejaculation frequency for inseminating mares. Two ejaculates collected twice a week would be a practical ejaculation frequency for long-term storage of stallion semen.
When a solution containing gly-N-pa and imidazole is evaporated to dryness and then maintained at a temperature between 65 degrees C and 100 degrees C, high yields of AppA and obligoglycines are obtained. We believe that ImpA is formed first, and then activates the carboxyl group of glycine or gly-A-pA. If glycine, ATP or AppA, and imidazole are heated together in the solid state, ImpA is formed and ATP , or indirectly from imidazole and gly-N-pA. Next the carboxyl group or glycine is activated by the ImpA formed in situ. The subsequent reactions of activated glycine leads to the formation of oligoglycines and the 2\' (3\')-glycylester of pA. Under plausible prebiobic conditions, good yields of oligoglycines up to the octamer can be obtained from glycine, ATP and imidazole.
Comparative data on quaternary structure, cooperativity, Bohr effect and regulation by organic phosphates are reviewed for vertebrate hemoglobins. A phylogeny of hemoglobin function in the vertebrates is deduced. It is proposed that from the monomeric hemoglobin of the common ancestor of vertebrates, a deoxy dimer, as seen in the lamprey, could have originated with a single amino acid substitution. The deoxy dimer has a Bohr effect, cooperativity and a reduced oxygen affinity compared to the monomer. One, or two, additional amino acid substitutions could have resulted in the origin of a tetrameric deoxy hemoglobin which dissociated to dimers on oxygenation. Gene duplication, giving incipient alpha and beta genes, probably preceded the origin of a tetrameric oxyhemoglobin. The origin of an organic phosphate binding site on the tetrameric hemoglobin of an early fish required only one, or two, amino acid substitutions. ATP was the first organic phosphate regulator of hemoglobin function. The binding of ATP by hemoglobin may have caused the original elevation in the concentration of ATP in the red blood cells by relieving end product inhibition of ATP synthesis. The switch from regulation of hemoglobin function by ATP to regulation by DPG may have been a consequence of the curtailment of oxidative phosphorylation in the red blood cell. The basic mechanisms by which ATP and DPG concentrations can respond to strss on the oxygen transport system were present before the origin of an organic phosphate binding site on hemoglobin. A switch from ATP regulation to IP5 regulation occurred in the common ancestor of birds.
Imidazole catalysis of phenylalanyl transfer from phenylalanine adenylate anhydride to the hydroxyl groups of homopolyribonucleotides was investigated as a chemical model of the biochemical aminoacylation of tRNA. Imidazole catalyzed transfer of phenylalanine to poly(U) increases from pH 6.5 to 7.7 and decreases above pH 7.7. At pH 7.7 approximately 10% of the phenylalanyl residues are transferred to poly(U). At pH 7.1, transfer to poly(U) was five times as great as to poly(A) and transfer to a poly(A) poly(U) double helix was negligible. At pH 7.1 approximately 45 mole percent linkages to poly(U) were monomeric phenylalanine; the remainder of the linkages were peptides of phenylalanine. The number of linkages and their lability to base and neutral hydroxylamine indicates that phenylalanine and its peptides are attached as esters to the 2\' hydroxyl groups throughout poly(U) and the 2\' (3\') hydroxyl groups at the terminus of poly(U). These results do model the contemporary process of aminoacyl transfer to tRNA and continue to suggest that a histidine residue is in the active site of aminoacyl-tRNA-synthetases.
A three-step treatment plan incorporating adoptive immunotherapy and chemoradiotherapy was used to treat AKR (H-2k) mice bearing spontaneous leukemia-lymphoma (SLL). 1) Leukemic mice were treated with chemoradiotherapy for immunosuppression and leukemia cytoreduction. 2) To introduce a graft-versus-leukemia reaction against residual malignant cells, the immunosuppressed AKR mice were given immunocompetent cells from H-2 mismatched DBA/2 (H-2d) donors. 3) To "rescue" the AKR hosts from incipient graft-versus-host disease, the mismatched DBA/2 cells were killed with combination chemotherapy, and cells from allogeneic H-2 matched RF (H-2k) donors were administered to restore hematopoiesis. Leukemic AKR mice thus treated had significant prolongation of their median survival time and a higher 60-day survival rate post treatment than did untreated controls, chemoradiotherapy controls, or control mice that received chemoradiotherapy plus cells from syngeneic donors. Therefore, adoptive immunotherapy may be useful as an adjunct to conventional therapy for treatment of SLL in AKR mice.
Chicken embryo fibroblasts infected with the nononcogenic herpesvirus of turkeys (HVT) displayed an increased rate of glucose uptake, a pronounced alteration of the pH of the medium, and an increased production of lactic acid when compared to mock-infected cultures. Objective estimates of cytopathology (quantifiable neutral red uptake and cell protein determination) showed that cell deterioration was a slow process in HVT-infected cells when compared to infection by herpes simplex virus. Experiments with irradiated host cells demonstrated that HVT required functional cell DNA for replication. The inactivation of the necessary host cell function displayed multihit kinetics. In agreement  with data on other herpesviruses, HVT damaged by UV light could be photoreactivated in chick cells. The results indicate that HVT shares biologic properties in common with other herpes and transforming viruses.
When a 203Ng(NO3)2 solution was kept at 25 degrees C in glass or polypropylene containers, 50 and 80% of original radioactivity was adsorbed to the containers\' walls after 1 and 4 days, respectively. However, no loss in radioactivity was observed if the solution was supplemented with HgCl as carrier (100 mug Hg2+/ml) and stored in either container for 13 days. When 203Hg2+ was dissolved in glucose basal salt broth with added carrier, levels of 203Hg2+ in solution (kept in glass) decreased to 80 and 70% of original after 1 and 5 days and decreased even more if stored in polypropylene (60 and 40% of original activity after 1 and 4 days, respectively). In the absence of carrier, decreases of 203Hg2+ activities in media stored in either container were more pronounced due to chemisorption (but) not diffusion. The following factors affecting the removal of mercurials from aqueous solution stored in glass were examined: type and concentration of adsorbent (fiber glass and rubber powder); pH; pretreatment of the rubber; and the form of mercury used. Rubber was equally effective in the adsorption of organic and inorganic mercury. The pH of the aqueous 203Hg2+ solution was not a critical factor in the rate of adsorption of mercury by the rubber. In addition, the effect of soaking the rubber in water for 18 hr did not show any statistical difference when compared with nontreated rubber. It can be concluded that rubber is a very effective adsorbent of mercury and, thus, can be used as a simple method for control of mercury pollution.
The properties of the hyperpolarization-activated sarcolemmal slow conductance increase in frog sartorius muscle fibers have been investigated using ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt (EDTA) and propionate Ringer solution. More than 1 sec was required for maximum activation of the sarcolemmal slwo conductance increase. It is suggested that, although the sarcolemmal slow conductance increase was affected by deterioration, the conductance increase is not a direct product of deterioration but it represents a property of the sarcolemma which is encountered in physiological range. The sarcolemmal conductance increase was rather insensitive to the change in pH of Ringer solution. It is inferred that the absence of bellying in newly penetrated intact fibers at neutral and alkaline pHs is caused mainly by the shunting effect of large parallel conductance. Apparent augmentation with EDTA of the sarcolemmal conductance increase infers that Ca ions affect the conductance increase. The conductance increase occurred also in the EDTA-containing Cl-deficient solution. The sarcolemmal slow conductance increase has been compared with the change in Cl conductance reported by Hutter and Warner, and Warner.
This study examines the renal response to moderate hyperventilation in healthy man. Eight men hyperventilated for 26 hr (PaCO2 approximately 30 to 32 mm Hg) in normoxia (barometric pressure, PB approximately 740 mm Hg) and hypobaric hypoxia (PB approximately530 mm Hg). Anaerobic samples of arterial blood and urine were studied at two-hour intervals. Plasma [HCO3-] fell with time during sustained hypocapnia and after 26 hr was reduced 2.5 mEq/liter, with plasma pH compensated approximately 60%. Statistically significant changes in renal H+ handling were observed within the initial 2 hr of hyperventilation and were evident over the first 12 hr. Over 26 hr, mean total HCO3-excretion in hypocapnia was 10.2 mEq above control and mean total acid excretion (UVTA + UVNH4+) was 17.5 mEq below control. An increased urinary excretion of cations, especially sodium, accompanied the decrease in acid excretion. Plasma lactic acid accumulation was negligible. We conclude that renal mechanisms contribute significantly and relatively quickly to plasma pH compensation during the early phase of adaptation to hypocapnia in man.
By animal experiments and clinically we could prove that isoglaucon instillation caused the decrease in IOP due to both increase in outflow and reduction of humor secretion; the IOP decrease and changes in hydrodynamics being manifested more markedly in the fellow-eye. As reoophthalmography demonstrated "Isoglaucon" produced lumen narrowing in the anterior portion of the uveal tract. "Isoglaucon" was prescribed to 20 patients having open-angle-glaucoma, Two hours after instillation the 23 decreased in 26 eyes (of 28) by 9.3 +/- 1.0 mm Hg. When prescribed regularly "Isoglaucon" raised the outflow facility coefficient from 0.10 +/- 0.01 to 0.20 +/-0.02. The secretion decreased from 2.0 +/- 0.2 to 0.9 +/- 0.15. Thus, IOP decrease after "Isoglaucon" is accounted for by both improved outflow and reduction of aqueous humor secretion. The "isoglucon" instillation produced a rather moderate decrease in the total arterial pressure, though no expected parallelism in arterial and intraocular pressure was marked.
Mosquito-borne arboviruses are prevalent throughout subarctic regions of Canada and Alaska, principally in the boreal forest extending between latitudes 53 and 66 degrees N, but they have been identified in tundra regions as far north as 70 degrees N. All mosquito-borne agents have been bunyaviruses, comprising principally the snowshoe hare subtype of California encephalitis (CE) virus, but also Northway virus. Mosquito vectors comprise several Aedes species and Culiseta inornata, all of which have supported replication of CE virus following incubation at 13 degrees C or lower temperatures. Isolation of virus from wild-caught larvae points towards transovarial transfer. Principal vertebrate reservoirs of infection are mammals, especially snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) and ground squirrels (Citellus undulatus). Where the boreal forest merges into prairie grassland around 53 degrees N, Culex tarsalis mosquitoes become prevalent, and an alphavirus, western equine encephalomyelitis, is detected more frequently than CE virus.
The nucleocapsid of the Semliki Forest virus is composed of 34% RNA and 66% protein, or one RNA and about 240 capsid protein molecules. The particle is spherical, with a diameter of 38--39 nm. If the nucleocapsid is exposed to slightly acid pH (6.4--5.6) it undergoes a structural change and is contracted to a 32 nm state. A similar contraction can be effected by RNase treatment, in this case, however, in connection with a loss of RNA. Treatment of the nucleocapsid with 0.2 mM SDS results in dissociation of capsid protein from RNA, an effect which suggests strong RNA-protein interaction. At 0.05 mM SDS the protein remains associated with the RNA, but the S-value is reduced from 150 S to 100 S. Electron micrographs of the 100 S ribonucleoprotein showed irregular and strand-like structures.
An association between viral hepatitis and two rheumatic disease syndromes has been observed. Twenty-nine patients manifested a transient polyarthritis, sometimes associated with a rash (Group I). Ten patients were seen with a multisystem disease (Group II). Histologic evidence of arteritis or glomerulonephritis was present in seven of ten patients with multisystem disease. Liver tissue from 18 patients showed morphologic evidence of hepatitis with viral features in 9 of 10 patients in Group I and in 6 of 8 patients in Group II. Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and/or antibody to HBsAg were detected in sera of all 39 patients. Abnormal liver functions were present in 36. Twelve Group I patients and 2 Group II patients became jaundiced. Rheumatoid factor was present in sera of seven patients in each group. The third component of complement (C3) was depressed in 13 patients in Group I and 7 patients in Group II. The fourth component of complement (C4) was decreased in 8 of 21 Group I and 3 of 7 Group II patients. Synovial fluid C3 was decreased in 2 of 11 Group I and 1 of 4 Group II patient\'s fluids. Articular inflammation in patients with transient polyarthritis responded in three to seven days to aspirin, acetominophen and/or bedrest alone and rashes disappeared spontaneously. Patients with multisystem disease generally had a prolonged illness and responded somewhat unpredictably to prednisone or a combination of prednisone and cyclophosphamide.
Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Rh. viridis, Rh. acidophila, and Rhodomicrobium vanniellii grow on media containing ethanol, n-propanol, and n-butanol. The highest amount of lower alcohols is utilized by the strains of Rh. palustris. Only Rh. acidophila accumulates methanol. Alcohol dehydrogenase of Rh. palustris, Rh. viridis, and Rhodospirillum rubrum requires for its activity NAD, that of Rhodomicrobium vanniellii--NADP, and the enzyme of Rh. acidophila is active in the presence of phenazine metasulphate (PMS) and ammonium ions. Aldehyde dehydrogenase from two strains of Rh. palustris also requires NAD; the Nakamura strain is active in the presence of PMS. Aldehyde dehydrogenase of Rh. acidophila is active in the presence of PMS and ammonium ions. Different bacterial species vary in the substrate specificity of their alcohol dehydrogenases.
Mycobacterium lacticolum 121 grows and synthesizes exopolysaccharide at the initial values of pH of the medium from 5.0 to 11.5. The accumulation of biomass is maximal (10 to 12 gram/litre) at pH 6.0 to 11.5; the rate of growth is highest at pH 8.0 to 11.5. The largest amount of exopolysaccharide (2.0 to 2.4 gram/litre) is produced in the medium at pH 8.0 to 11.0; the rate of its production is highest at pH 9.0 to 11.0. The growth of Mycobacterium lacticolum 121 and the biosynthesis of polysaccharide are optimal at pH 8.0 to 8.2. Changes in acidity of the medium have no effect on the qualitative composition, structure, and molecular weight of the polysaccharide.
Chitinolytic microorganisms isolated from forest soil and from healthy gypsy moth larvae (Porthetria dispar (L.) were screened for their ability to lyse Trichophyton rubrum mycelia. A few of these isolates were mycolytic on both autoclaved and on actively growing, intact, T. rubrum mycelia. Supernatants from these isolates, utilizing live T. rubrum as the sole carbon source, showed the same mycolytic ability. Assays of the supernatants for enzymatic activity revealed exocellular, stable enzymes that releases reducing substances including N-acetylglucosamine from the mycelia.
The influence of some drugs on the effect of morphine on the threshold pressure required to elicit peristalsis in the guinea pig ileum in situ was studied, in order to test the hypothesis that this effect of morphine is mediated by catecholamine release. Tachyphylaxis to this effect of morphine was confirmed. Pretreatemnt with two 8 mg/kg doses of reserpine, 24 and 48 hrs before the experiment, significantly reduced the effect of morphine on the pressure threshold. The i.v. administration of 10 mg/kg dl-Dopa re-established the effect of morphine in reserpinized animals to the level of the untreated controls. Pretreatment with guanethidine (15 mg/kg) decreased and even prevented this effect of morphine. Phentolamine pretreatment (10 mg/kg) also significantly inhibited the effect of morphine. Neither DCI nor propranolol influenced this morphine effect. Pretreatment with reserpine, guanethidine or phentolamine reduced the basic pressure threshold needed to elicit peristalsis. The possibility that the decrease of local circulation induced by hypotenison would reduce the local concentration of morphine was rejected because the same doses of guanethidine or phentolamine did not modify the effect of hexamethonium given i.v. in this preparation. All these results support the idea that the effect of morphine on intestinal peristalsis is mediated by a catecholamine acting on alpha-receptors, e.g. norepinephrine.
In perifused isolated pancreatic islets alpha-ketoisocaproic acid (KIC) or alpha-ketocaproic acid (KC) induced a high insulin secretion rate and a steep increase of the fluorescence of reduced pyridine pyridine nucleotides [NAD(P)H] which fell again to almost prestimulatory levels 6 min after medium change. Insulin release in response to alpha-ketooctanoic (KO) acid started slowly and was accompanied by a decrease of the NAD(P)H-fluorescence trace. Beta-phenylpyruvate which is known to initiate insulin release also caused a fluorescence decrease. Alpha-keto-isovaleric (KIV) acid or pyruvate had no significant effects upon insulin secretion or NAD(P)H-fluorescence. In contrast to l-leucine, l-norleucine or l-valine did not enhance insulin release or fluorescence of NAD(P)H. KIV, alpha-keto-beta-methylvaleric acid (KMV), KIC and KC raised the production their corresponding amino acids by islet cells. From these results it is concluded that alpha-ketomonocarboxylic acids as such trigger insulin release by acting upon receptor sites which differ from those occupied by amino acids.
The nerve growth factor (NGF) subunit of 7S NGF was isolated by chromatography at high pH on QAE-Sephadex. It has the same specific NGF activity as betaNGF isolated at acid pH, showing that this activity is an intrinsic property of the subunit and is independent of the pathway of dissociation. Continued exposure of the NGF subunit to high pH resulted in an increase in the amount of the minor species beta2NGF and the formation of a new species, beta3NGF, of even lower isoelectric point. These two species and the original major species of the preparation, beta1, were isolated by isoelectric focusing. All three species had the same specific NGF activity, but differed in their ability to reform 7S NGF. The beta2 species was one-fifth as competent as beta1, while beta3 was unable to regenerate 7S NGF. Addition of alpha- and gamma-subunits to beta1NGF decreased the amount of NGF protein required to produce one Biological Unit of activity in the bioassay, but had no effect when added to beta3NGF. The interactions between the subunits in 7S NGF therefore determine, in part, the specific activity of the NGF subunit.
The major protein in beta nerve growth factor preparations, beta1NGF, is a dimer in which both peptide chains have COOH-terminal arginine residues. Digestion of beta1NGF with carboxypeptidase B produced a dimer, beta3NGF, in which both chains lack these terminal arginine residues. Exposure of mixtures of beta1 and beta3NGF dimers to 8 M urea to produce monomers, followed by removal of urea to allow recombination, resulted in the formation of the hybrid beta2NGF, comprising one arginine-containing and one arginine-less chain, as well as the parent dimers. The amount of the three dimers formed was close to that expected from random association of monomers. Hybrid beta2NGF was also formed from mixtures of beta1 and beta3NGF where incubated at pH 2.6 to 4.5. The formation of beta2NGF has a half-time of 6 h at pH 4.0 and 4 degrees C. Its rate of formation decreased above pH 4.5, becoming minimal between pH 9.5 and pH 10.5, and increased with increasing temperature. The amount of beta2NGF formed was determined by the lowest pH to which the parent mixture was exposed, irrespective of its prior history. These data suggest that the hybrid is formed by the same mechanism in the absence and presence of the urea step. An approximate value for Kd, the equilibrium dissociation constant of the dimer equilibrium monomer equilibrium was derived. Its value was 3 - 10(-10) M at pH 4.0 and 4 degrees C. The alpha-subunit of 7S NGF decreased the rate of formation of beta2NGF not only at pHs where an alphabeta complex is stable, but also at an acid pH where no complex formation is observed by sedimentation analysis, suggesting that the present methodology offers a more sensitive probe of subunit interactions. In contrast, the gamma subunit and a number of indifferent proteins had little or no effect on the appearance of beta2NGF at the pHs studied.
The effects of ritodrine hydrochloride were evaluated in 25 toxemic patients in active labor utilizing continuous electronic monitoring of fetal and maternal cardiovascular systems and uterine activity. Fetal scalp blood and free flowing maternal antecubital venous blood was obtained for pH, Po2, Pco2, base deficit and blood glucose determinations prior to and immediately following the study period. The initial ritodrine dose was 50 mug/min for 15 minutes. The dose was increased by 50 mug/min each 15 minutes until there was a clinically apparent reduction in uterine activity. Once this was accomplished, the infusion was maintained for 30 minutes. There was a consistent increase in the maternal heart rate (MHR) and a significant rise in fetal heart rate (FHR) late in the infusion and in the postinfusion period. There was a widening of the maternal pulse pressure mainly due to a reduction in diastolic pressure with little change in the mean blood pressure. Maternal and fetal pH decreased and base deficit increased during the study although the PO2 and PCO2 remained unchanged. Maternal and fetal blood glucose rose significantly following ritodrine infusion.
Jovian plants have enviroments apparently suitable for the evolution of life, but nevertheless, present severe challenges to organisms. One such challenge arises from the presence of ammonia. Ammonia is an efficient biocide, its effect being dependent on pH as well as on concentration. The effects of pH and ammonia concentration were studied separately, where possible, on a variety of organisms, including some isolated from natural enviornments of high pH and/or ammonia concentration. Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis are both extremely sensitive to ammonia. An aerobic organism (growth up to pH 11.4) from an alkaline spring is more resistant, but exhibits a toxic response to ammonia at a pH much lower than its maximum for growth. The greatest ammonia resistance has been found in an unidentified organism growing at near neutral pH. Even in this case, however, survival at ammonia concentrations reasonably expected on the Jovian planets is measured in hours. This is, nevertheless, two to three orders of magnitude longer than for E. coli. Our data support the tentative conclusion that contamination of the Jovian planets with terrestrial organisms that can grow is unlikely. However, the range of toxic response noted, coupled with the observation that terrestrial life has not been exposed to high ammonia concentrations for millions of years, suggests that adaptation to greater ammonia tolerance may be possible.
Gamma-Glutamyltranspeptidase (GGTP) activity was studied in livers of rats submitted to an end-to-side portacaval shunt (PCS) and in developing animals. To correlate the evolution of the enzymatic activity measured in vitro, histochemical techniques were used to localize enzyme activity in liver tissue. The GGTP activity in the adult rats was low and amounted to 2.0 +/- 0.1 mumol/min/g. During fetal development the enzyme activity rose beginning on the 15th gestational day from 630 +/- 97 to 1,058 +/- 20 on the first postnatal day. Then the values declined and reached nearly adult values from the 10th postnatal day. After PCS the GGTP activity exhibited a three- to sixfold increase (130 +/- 69 to 371 +/- 131) as compared with unoperated adult controls (53 +/- 13). the highest levels corresponded to those observed between the 3rd and 5th postnatal day in the developing rats. The histochemistry of GTTP in the fetal and newborn liver showed a regular distribution of the enzyme as a fine deposit in the hepatocytes throughout the whole tissue. Ten days after birth the activity was low, at the same level as in the adult rat. In the period after PCS hepatocytes began to show signs of enzymatic activity at the periphery of the hepatic lobules, which subsequently spread through the whole lobules. The increase of GGTP activity after PCS equaled the activity found in fetal animals. That correlated well in both groups with the reappearance of histologically demonstrable enzyme activity in hepatocytes.
Mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome (MCLS) is a newly recognized disease characterized by fever persisting for more than 5 days, an erythematous skin eruption, conjunctival congestion, dry red fissured lips, reddened tongue, palms, and soles, nonpurulent lymphadenopathy, and sometines diarrhea, arthralgia, and aseptic meningitis. Additional features may include carditis, pericarditis, aneurysmal dilation and thrombosis of coronary arteries, and sudden death. There is a striking similarity of fatal cases to infantile polyarteritis nodosa, a disease recently reported to be associated with elevated levels of serium IgE. Indeed, it is likely that MCLS represents a disease which can progress to polyarteritis nodosa in infants and young children. The paired acute and convalescent serum IgE levels of 20 subjects with acute nonfatal MCLS were studied along with 20 near-age unaffected controls from the same communities in Japan. The results indicate that most if not all subjects with MCLS in the study had an elevation of total serum IgE during the acute phase of the disease (geometric mean 157 IU/ml compared with the control value of 38 IU/ml, P = 0.005). The level appeared to reach a peak 1-2 weeks after onset and declined over the ensuing 1-2 months.
Lung slices from term fetal rats were incubated in vitro at various pH values and the rates of the two de novo pathways for lecithin biosynthesis were determined by measuring the conversion of either 14C-choline (pathway 1) or 14C-methionine (pathway 2) to the phospholipid. It was observed that the choline pathway, but not phosphatidylethanolamine methylation, is pH-sensitive with maximum rates occurring at pH levels between 7.3 and 7.5; significantly less activity was found at pH levels between 7.0 and 7.2 and at pH levels between 7.6 and 8.0. Adjustment of the pH from 7.0 to 7.4 in vitro simulating the clinical correction of acidosis by alkali infusion was found to increase the conversion of choline to lecithin to a rate approximating that observed at pH 7.4. Since lecithins are the principal phospholipid components of pulmonary surfactant, and since pathway 1 is predominantly responsible for lung lecithin synthesis, the demonstration of impaired production with reduced pH offers a biochemical explanation for the pathophysiological effects of acidosis in the respiratory distress syndrome. A comparison of pH effects on choline pathway rate with the pH profiles of pathway enzymes suggests that these effects are mediated by the catalysts of lecithin synthesis.
An ATPase stimulated by HCO -  ions and other oxybases and inhibited by SCN- has been found in main excretory duct of rat submaxillary gland, a tissue, capable of actively secreting HCO - 3 ions. No such ATPase was found in the rabbit duct, which normally does not secrete HCO - 3. The HCO - 3 ATPase was localized in the plasma membrane fraction of the homogenate, as evidenced by the marker 5\'-nucleotidase. The activities of the HCO - 3 ATPase increased in metabolic alkalosis and decreased in metabolic acidosis in parallel to secretion of HCO - 3 and K+ ions by the duct epithelium. These findings provide further evidence that the membrane-bound HCO - 3 ATPase is involved in active H+/HCO - 3 transport.
The ventilatory responses, blood gases and acid-base status to intravenous injections of KCN and doxapram hydrochloride were studied in anesthetized dogs during normothermia and at two levels of hypothermia. In the normothermic animal, KCN evoked significant elevations of minute and alveolar ventilations. For the mildly hypothermic (32-33 degrees C) dog, minute and alveolar ventilations were proportionally greater than for normothermia. Bolus infusions of KCN to deeply hypothermic dogs (28-29 degrees C) elicited larger and nearly similar increases of minute and alveolar ventilations as compared, respectively, with normothermia and mild hypothermia. Compared to their controls, injections of doxapram during normothermia, mild and deep hypothermia augmented VE 43.3%, 63.6% and 31.5%, respectively. With doxapram there was a feeble increase in alveolar ventilation. These results demonstrate that the peripheral (arterial) chemoreceptors preserve the capacity to respond to stimuli given acutely while lowering core temperature and in some circumstances this capacity is even enhanced as compared to normothermia.
The ventilatory responses, blood gases and acid-base status to intravenous injections of KCN and doxapram hydrochloride were studied in anesthetized dogs during normothermia and thermally induced panting. In the normothermic animal, KCN evoked elevation of VE (154.7%), VT (70.1%), f (48.3%, PaO2 (12.1%) and pH (0.098 units), while PaCO2 diminished by 9.7 mm Hg. During panting, KCN infusions resulted in increases of VE (24.5%), VT (46.6%), PaO2 (3.9%) and pH (0.034 units), while f decreased (10.1%). Bolus injections of doxapram during normothermia increased VE (32.6%), VT (18.8%) and f (17.1%). During panting VE, VT and f increased by 18.0%, 18.2% and 1.5%, respectively. These results demonstrate that the peripheral (arterial) chemoreceptors preserve the capacity to react to acute chemical stimuli in animals in which the thermal stimuli override the normal chemical control of respiration in order to control body temperature, and that this reaction contributes to the integrated respiratory drive.
The effects of alpha, alpha1-dipyridyl (DP) on noradrenaline (NA), dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels in rat and mouse brain and on dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH) activity in rat brain have been studied, DP decreases NA level and inhibits DbetaH activity in a dose dependent manner, without affecting DA or 5-HT levels.
The molecular mechanism of the Bohr effect is explained according to the molecular model proposed by Perutz et al. The Bohr effect is due to changes in the pK of specific carboxyl and amino groups of the four globin chains following the transition between the deoxy and oxy conformations of the molecule. Carbon dioxide binds to the N terminal valine of the 4 monomers to form carbamino compounds. This carbaminoformation depends upon pH, PCO2 and predominates on deoxygenated haemoglobin. It is lowered when O2 binds to the heme groups (O2 linked carbamino compounds). Through the carbamino compounds Carbon dioxide lowers both the affinity of haemoglobin for O2 and the Bohr effect. Diphosphoglycerate also binds to the haemoglogin molecule. This organophosphate lowers the affinity for O2 but increases the Bohr effect. In whole blood, the Bohr effect is therefore dependent upon pH, O2 saturation, PCO2 and DPG concentration into the red blood cells.
In vitro, the affinity of Hb for O2 depends on pH and capnia by the intermediate of the 2-3 DPG level, the concentration of which lowers in the case of acidosis and hypercapnia. Thus, an increase in the affinity results, but while Bohr\'s effect is immediate, on the contrary the 2-3 DPG effect is slow. Authors have verified the importance of this modification by studying the affinity of Hb for O2 thanks to the P50 technique in 15 normal non-smokers subjects and in 10 subjects with compensated or not respiratory acidosis but normally saturated thanks to continuous O2 administration.
The purpose of the study was to determine optimal pH values for the enzymic activity of the fungi Trichothecium roseum and Aspergillus niger hydrolyzing nonstarch polysaccharides of barley and disrupting cell walls (cytolysis) of grain, the so called cytolytic enzymes. The effect of the acidity of the medium on the stability of these enzymes was also investigated. In this connection total cytolytic activity (i. e. total activity of the enzymes hydrolyzing nonstarch polysaccharides of cell walls of barley) and hemicellulase activity of the fungi at different pH values were measured. The activity of these enzymes in aqueous extracts from the fungal culture at optimal pH after preincubation was determined at different acidity levels. The optimum of the hemicellulase activity of both fungi was at 4.6, the optimum of the total cytolytic activity of Tr. roseum at pH 5.6 and of Asp. niger at pH 3.0. The enzymes of the fungus Asp. niger showed a far higher acid stability than those of Tr. roseum.
Thiamine pyrophosphokinase (EC 2.7.7.2) isolated from dry brewing yeast has been purified 20-fold with a 70% yield. Certain properties of the enzyme have been determined: pH and temperature optima, donor and acceptor concentrations, and relationship between the rate of cocarboxylase biosynthesis and the incubation time and the enzyme quantity. The effects of concentrations of bivalent metal ions Co2+, Mg2+ and Mn2+ on the rate of the enzymic reaction has been studied. A change in the pH optimum as a function of the nature of the ion-activator has been investigated. It has been shown that neopyrithiamin is a competitive inhibitor and oxythiamin inhibits the enzymic reaction insignificantly. Thiamine phosphate cannot be transformed into thiamine diphosphate by the purified enzyme.
The procedure for isolating aminoacyl-tRNA-synthetases from yeast Candida utilis IBPM-405 was developed. The rate of activation of L-amino acids in the formation of hydroxamates was different. Aspartic acid, asparagine, glutamic acid, tryptophane, phenyl alanine and methionine underwent the highest activation. The activation of alanine, arginine, hydroxyproline, serine and isoleucine was insignificant. Using aspartic acid, it was shown that the hydroxamate formation was ATP-stimulated and that the amount of hydroxamate increased with a rise of the protein concentration in the mixture to 9-10 mg/ml. The hydroxamate formation was inhibited by p-chloromercury-benzoate and heavy metal ions. Yeast aminoacyl-tRNA-synthetases showed L-aspartic and L-glutamic activities that were independent from Mg++ ions and ATP.
We have examined three mutants of Klebsiella aerogenes whose genetic lesions (glnB, glnD, and glnE) are in loci unlinked to the structural gene for glutamine sythetase (glnA) and in which the control of both the level and state of adenylylation of glutamine synthetase is altered. Each mutation alters a different component of the adenylylation system of glutamine synthetase [L-glutamate:ammonia ligase (ADP-forming), EC 6.3.1.2]. Inability of the cell to deadenylylate glutamine synthetase (glnB and glnD) greatly decreases its production, while inability to adenylylate glutamine sythetase (glnE) results in its constitutively high production. These results together with our previous results indicate that adenylylated glutamine synthetase inhibits the transcription of glnA.
The stability to heating and pH changing of two proteinases of Bacillus subtilis was studied. The preparations were: protosubtilin G10x with an activity of 21500 units/g and proteinase immobilized on silochrome C-80 with an activity of 3880 units/g. For protosubtilin G10x the pH optimum was 7.0-7.2. For the immobilized preparation 96-100% activity was found at pH 5.5-10.0. The difference between the two proteinase preparations was more distinct with respect to the temperature minimum. The initial preparation-protosubtilin G10x was more stable to low temperature and showed maximum activity at 40 degrees; the immobilized preparation was less active at low temperatures and showed maximum activity at 60-70 degrees. Protosubtilin G10x was more sensitive to pH changes, especially in the acid zone (pH 4.5). It was significantly activated at 30-40 degrees and was unstable at 50-60 degrees. The immobilized preparation was activated at 50- 60 degrees and was insensitive to pH changes in the range of 4.5 to 9.2 and temperature changes from 10 degrees to 40 degrees for 1.5-2.0 hours.
The conditions for splitting protodioscine--the main steroid saponine isolated from Tribulus terrestris L. by the enzymic preparation of Aspergillus niger str. BKMt-33 were investigated. The optimal conditions were found to be as follows: pH 4-5, temperature 30-37 degrees (the substrate concentration--5 mg%, concentration of the enzymic preparation--1%). Under these conditions the enzymolysis continued 24 hours. Mg+2 and K+ ions accelerated the reaction twice. As a result of the enzymic hydrolysis dioscine and trilline were obtained. This indicates beta-glucosidase and alpha-rhamnosidase activities of the enzymic complex isolated from Aspergillus niger str. BKMt-33.
Stimulation with phytohemagglutinin of the leukocytes from six of the seven known individuals with UDP-galactose 4-epimerase (= UDP-glucose 4-epimerase; EC 5.1.3.2) deficiency consistently resulted in the appearance of epimerase activity in the cultured cells. A long-term lymphoblast culture derived from one proband also contained an active epimerase enzyme. A comparison of the properties of this enzyme with those of epimerase produced by control lymphoblast lines revealed comparable Km values for UDP-galactose and NAD and identical behavior on polyacrylamide electrophoresis. However, a difference in the NAD requirement for heat stability at 40 degree provided some evidence for a structural defect in this enzyme. Possible explanations for the appearance of UDP-galactose 4-epimerase activity in stimulated lymphocytes include an increased rate of synthesis of a mutant enzyme and a derepression of an epimerase locus during lymphocyte transformation.
beta-Bungarotoxin, a pre-synaptic neurotoxin isolated from the venom of the snake Bungarus multicinctus, has been shown to modify release of neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction. In this communication, we demonstrate that beta-bungarotoxin is a potent phospholipase A2 (phosphatide 2-acyl hydrolase, EC 3.1.1.4), comparable in activity with purified phospholipase enzymes from Naja naja and Vipera russellii. The phospholipase activity of beta-bungarotoxin requires calcium and is stimulated by deoxycholate. When strontium replaces calcium, no phospholipase activity is detected. Since neuromuscular transmission is not blocked when calcium is replaced by strontium, it was possible to examine the effects of the toxin on neuromuscular transmission in the presence of strontium. Under these conditions, when the phospholipase activity should be inhibited, the toxin has little or no effect on neuromuscular transmission. If beta-bungarotoxin owes its toxicity in part to its enzymatic activity, then it must be placed in a different class from those toxins which produce their effect by binding passively to an appropriate receptor.
The method of DNA alkaline elution was applied to a study of the formation and resealing of DNA single-strand breaks after irradiation of human fibroblasts with ultraviolet light (UV). The general features of the results were consistent with current concepts of DNA excision repair, in that breaks appeared rapidly after UV, and resealed slowly in normal fibroblasts, whereas breaks did not appear in those cells of patients with xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) that are known to have defects in DNA repair synthesis. The appearance of breaks required a short post-UV incubation, consistent with the expected action of an endonuclease. Cells of the variant form of XP characterized by normal DNA repair synthesis exhibited normal production of breaks after UV, but were slower than normal cells in resealing these breaks. This difference was enhanced by caffeine. A model is proposed to relate this finding with a previously described defect in post-replication repair in these XP variant cells. DNA crosslinking appears to cause an underestimate in the measurement of DNA breakage after UV.
Highly purified platelet glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD; D-glucose-6-phosphate:NADP+ 1-oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.49) can be modified in its isoelectric point and its molecular specific activity by extracts of some leukemic granulocytes. The "G6PD modifying factors" are relatively small molecules (molecular weight slightly under 5000), thermostable, dialyzable, and ultrafilterable. These molecules are destroyed by various endo- and exopeptidases and by serine enzymes present in crude extracts of leukocytes and commercial preparations of ribonuclease. The alterations of platelet G6PD due to the "G6PD modifying factors" are stable and not reversible by dialysis or further chromatography. The leukemic extracts which are able to modify G6PD also can modify the electrophoretic mobility and (or) the enzymatic activity of purified leukocyte pyruvate kinase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, and glucosephosphate isomerase. The chemical nature of such modifications and their relationships with post-translational modifications which occur in leukemic or normal cells are discussed.
The cellular content of acetyl-CoA carboxylase [acetyl-CoA:carbon-dioxide ligase (ADP-forming), EC 6.4.1.2] in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is reduced by the addition of long-chain fatty acids to the culture medium. Mutant strains of S. cerevisiae defective in acyl-CoA synthetase [acid:CoA ligase (AMP-forming), EC 6.2.1.3] were isolated and used to determine whether fatty acid itself or a metabolite of fatty acid is more directly responsible for the repression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase. Cells of the mutant strains were capable of incorporating fatty acid to an extent comparable to that observed with the wild-type strain, but they accumulated markedly more of the incorporated fatty acid in the nonesterified form than did the wild-type cells. The level of acetyl-CoA carboxylase activity in the mutants, in contrast to that in the wild-type strain, was hardly affected by the addition of fatty acids to the medium. These results indicate that the activation of exogenous fatty acid is required for the repression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase, supporting the view that the repressive effect is mediated by some compound metabolically derived from fatty acid.
Cyclic nucleotide metabolism was investigated in growing kidneys of rats during compensatory hypertrophy and during neonatal development. After unilateral nephrectomy a mild and short-lasting decrease in cyclic 3\':5" adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) was observed in the hypertrophying kidney. In contrast, cyclic 3\':5\' guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) showed a sharp decline to 20% of control at 15 min and a rapid rise to 200-300% above base-line at 1-72 hr. The alterations in renal tissue levels of cGMP were associated with parallel changes in the soluble, 100,000 X g supernatant guanylate cyclase activity [GTP pyrophosphate-lyase (cyclizing): EC 4.6.1.2]. No change was observed in total cGMP phosphodiesterase (3\':5\'-cyclic-nucleotide 5\'-nucleotidohydrolase; EC 3.1.4.17). In the rapidly growing kidney of newborn rats cAMP levels were 983 +/- 65 and 833 +/- 42 pmol/g of kidney at 4 and 7 days after birth, and increased to adult levels (1518 +/- 57 pmol/g) at 21 days whereas cGMP levels were 59.8 +/- 6.8 and 92.5 +/- 13.9 pmol/g at 4 and 7 days and decreased to adult levels (36 +/- 1.5) at 21 days. The results indicate that compensatory renal hypertrophy and neonatal kidney growth are associated with changes in cAMP and cGMP metabolism.
The influence of environmental pH on AAV was studied in infectious virus titrations, induction of CF antigens production of infectious virus, induction of immunofluorescent stainable antigen, and aggregation of the viral particles. The pH of the medium was found to influence the titer of virus stocks in that less virus was registered at acid pH\'s, giving differences of up to 105 TCID50 in HEK and HEp-2 cells. Less infectious virus was produced in KB cells, and decreased amounts of CF antigen appeared at acid pH\'s. However, increased levels of detectable intracellular FA antigen appeared at acid pH\'s. Electron microscopic examination of AAV particles negatively stained at various pH\'s showed increasingly large aggregates of particles as the pH was lowered. Under the acid conditions studied, the adenovirus helper and cell activities were only slightly suppressed, with the greatest effect due to aggregation of the virus particles.
Many aspects of cell behaviour are regulated by the interaction of extracellular ligands with specific receptors exposed on the cell surface. The receptors correspond to membrane proteins and expecially glycoproteins. A key event in regulation is the transmission across the surface membrane of the information resulting from receptor-ligand interaction. The activation of lymphocytes by Phaseolus vulgaris phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) provides a convenient experimental model for the study of the molecular basis of receptor-ligand interaction and the molecular consequences of interaction. The receptor mediating lymphocyte activation by PHA is probably a unique glycoprotein which is present to the extent of about 3 X 10(4) molecules/cell. The PHA-receptor complex solubilized in 1% sodium deoxycholate has a molecular size of about 3 X 10(5). The primary event in the activation process is probably an increase in the permeability of the surface membrane to Ca2+. This may be achieved by PHA cross-linking (\'patching\') the receptors to form a polar channel that permits an influx of Ca2+.
At the surface of aggregating cells of the slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum, two different sites interacting with extracellular cAMP are detectable: binding sites and cycl-nucleotide phosphodiesterase. Both sites are developmentally regulated. An adequate stimulus for the chemoreceptor system in D. discoideum is the change of cAMP concentration in time, rather than concentration per se: long-term binding of cAMP causes only short-term response. The system is, consequently, adapted to the recognition of pulses rather than to steady-state concentrations of cAMP. The ce,lls are, nevertheless, able to sense stationary spatial gradients and to respond to them by chemotactic orientation. The possibility is discussed that they do so by transforming spatial concentration changes into temporal ones, using extending pseudopods as sensors. The cAMP recognition system is part of a molecular network involved in the generation of spatio-temporal patterns of cellular activities. This system controls the periodic formation of chemotactic signals and their propagation from cell to cell. The phosphodiesterase limits the duration of the cAMP pulses and thus sharply separates the periods of signalling; the binding sites at the cell surface are supposed to be the chemoreceptors. The control of cellular activities via cAMP receptors can be studied with biochemical techniques with cell suspensions in which spatial inhomogeneities are suppressed by intense stirring, whereas the temporal aspect of the spatiotemporal pattern is preserved. Under these conditions it can be shown that the extracellular cAMP concentration changes periodically, and that the phase of the cellular oscillator can be shifted by external pulses of cAMP. It can also be shown that small cAMP pulses induce a high output of cAMP, which demonstrates signal amplification, a function necessary for a cellular relay system.
The structure of the Fab\' fragment of a human myeloma protein (IgG1 (lambda) New) has been determined by X-ray crystallographic analysis to a nominal resolution of 0.2 nm. Each of the structure subunits corresponding to the variable and to the constant homology regions of the light and heavy polypeptide chains contains two irregular beta-sheets which are roughly parallel to each other and surround a tighly packed interior of hydrophobic side chains. The regions of the hypervariable sequences in the light and heavy chains occur in close spatial proximity at one end of the molecule, defining the active site of IgG New. The role of these hypervariable regions in defining the size and shape of the active site of different immunoglobulins is discussed on the basis of the three-dimensional model of Fab\' New. Several ligands that bind to the active centre of IgG New have been used to obtain crystalline ligand-Fab\' New complexes which were investigated by difference Fourier maps. These studies are analysed in terms of the biological function and specificity of antibodies.
This paper reports the initial progress in a research programme to identify and obtain the relative orientations, in solution, of the amino acid residues that constitute the combining site of the myeloma protein MOPC 315. This protein has a molecular mass of 150,000, but enzymic digestion yields the Fv fragment of molecular mass 25,000 which still has the combining site intact, as judged by the affinity for dinitrophenyl haptens. Analysis of the e.s.r. spectra of a series of dinitrophenyl spin labelled haptens has allowed the dimensions, rigidity and polarity profile of the combining site to be determined. The combining site is a cleft of overall dimensions 1.1 nm x 0.9 nm x 0.6 nm which has considerable structural rigidity. One of these spin labels has also been used to perturb the n.m.r. spectrum of the Fv and using difference spectroscopy the 270 MHz proton n.m.r. spectrum of the amino acid residues in and around the combining site has been obtained. This spectrum contains only the equivalent of about 30 aromatic and 21 aliphatic protons. Comparison of this difference spectrum with that obtained using a diamagnetic analogue suggests that any conformational changes on hapten binding are mainly localized to the combining site. By the use of (n.m.r.) difference spectroscopy the protons of the three histidine residues in the Fv are observed to titrate with pH and have pKa values of about 8.1, 6.9 and 6.1. The histidine resonances with pKa values 6.9 and 6.1 alter slightly in the presence of haptens and also appear in the spin label difference spectrum, and must therefore be in or near to the combining site. These are assigned to His 102H and His 97L. The existence of lanthanide binding sites on the Fv, necessary for the mapping studies, has been demonstrated by measurements of Gd III water relaxation rates in Fv solutions and also by the changes in the Fv tryptophan fluorescence on addition of Gd III. At pH 5.5 there is one tight binding site for the lanthanides (KD approximately 80 muM) but in the presence of hapten this is weakened 10-20 fold with a reciprocal effect on the hapten binding. Measurements of the Gd III quenching of the e.s.r. spectrum of a spin labelled hapten bound to Fv indicate that the lanthanide site is ca. 1.5 nm from the nitroxide moiety.
Soluble rat brain proteins undergo a thermal reversible denaturation in the range of 20 degrees C -65 degrees C. The thermal transition as studied in 0.25 M sucrose solution, is associated with changes in the proteins ionization capacity by the lowering of the isoionic solution pHfrom a value of 6.95 at 20 degrees C to 6.55 at 65 degrees C. The apparent enthalpy change delta H at the transition temperature (t=50 degrees C) is about 34 Kcal, heat capacity delta Cp about 1.75 Kcal, and apparent entrophy change deltaS 100 e.u. The data suggest that the thermal transition is predominantly a two-state process. A prolonged keeping of the protein solution at the increased temperature produces a partial reversibility of thermal transitions by a lowering of 5-HT cations fixing on the protein molecule.
The effects of isoproterenol, glucose, and pH on the responses of isolated rat cardiac muscle to hypoxia (95% N2, 5% CO2) were examined while the muscles were contracting isometrically 12 times a minute at 28 degrees C. In the presence of 5.5 mM glucose, 10(-5) M isoproterenol and alkaline pH (7.8) improved the performance of cardiac muscle during early hypoxia. This was followed by a premature decline in developed tension, and contracture appeared. Recovery of function following reoxygenation with 95% O2 and 5% CO2 after a 60-min period of hypoxia was poor. Acid pH (6.8) resulted in an early decline of mechanical activity during hypoxia; but contracture did not appear, and full recovery of developed tension was seen upon reoxygenation after 60 min of hypoxia. When 22 mM glucose was used as substrate, the early responses to hypoxia were not altered; but late performance was improved, contracture did not appear, and full recovery after 60 min of hypoxia was seen. If additional glucose was added to the bath after 30 min of hypoxia (concentration 22 mM), little effect on developed tension was evident; but contracture diminished and recovery after 60 min of hypoxia was improved. Addition of 22 mM glucose allowed isoproterenol to exert its inotropic effect in the absence of late deleterious changes. The data support the concept that factors tending to increase the utilization of limited stores of anaerobic substrate during hypoxia facilitate deterioration. By increasing exogenous glucose, the support of inotropic activity without late adverse effects appears possible, and recovery is improved upon reoxygenation.
Acute aneurysms and other morphologically defined cardiac lesions were produced in frogs by isoproterenol (IPR) as previously described. Samples from lesions verified in vivo and from macroscopically normal ventricular areas, together with samples from nontreated control animals, were analyzed for total water content, inulin space, pHe, and pHi by using DMO-14C and inulin-3H. Total cardiac tissue water content was increased in all types of lesions after IPR injection. The highest content was found in bulging, noncontractile aneurysms. Inulin space was enlarged in all heart muscle specimens from IPR-treated animals, including those without macroscopically visible lesions. Those specimens with aneurysms showed the greatest degree of enlargement. The (pHe-pHi) did not differ between injected and noninjected animals, and the noncontractile samples from aneurysms did not differ from other lesions and macroscopically intact areas. In IPR-injected animals, there was no difference in pHi between macroscopically damaged and nondamaged segments of ventricle wall. On comparing these animals to controls, however, a slight shift to the alkaline side for both pHi and pHe was observed. The (pHe-pHi) was higher in skeletal muscle than in heart muscle in both IPR-treated and nontreated animals. Tissue water increased in skeletal muscle after IPR injection, reflecting a change of intracellular water as inulin space was maintained.
Using the method in which leukocyte suspensions were incubated with NaF or metaproterenol at 30 degrees C for 15-30 min to allow them to convert 3H-ATP (10 muCi) to 3H-cyclic AMP, followed by separation of the formed 3H-cyclic AMP by common chromatography, the leukocyte adenyl cyclase activity of monkeys and human beings was measured with high reproducibility. The oral administration of metaproterenol increased the leukocyte adenyl cyclase activity which was stimulated by NaF and decreased the count of peripheral eosinophils in some of the monkeys. In the beta-adrenergic blockade of the monkey which was made by administration of propranolol, the leukocyte adenyl cyclase activity significantly decreased. The leukocyte adenyl cyclase from patients with coronary heart disease also decreased after oral medication with propranolol.
The levels of carbonic anhydrase B and C isozymes in human red cells were determined using a quantitative immunological technique in patients with chronic obstructive lung disease. A significant increase in the level of carbonic anhydrase B was observed in these patients, while the level of carbonic anhydrase C did not change substantially. Positive correlations were found between the level of carbonic anhydrase B and arterial CO2 tension and plasma HCO3 concentration. A negative correlation was observed between the levels of carbonic anhydrase B and blood pH. These findings suggest that the synthesis or degradation of carbonic anhydrase B isozyme is affected by arterial CO2 tension or plasma HC03 concentration. The clinical significance was also discussed in relation to these isozyme levels in red cell.
Delta5-3beta HSDH activity has been assayed either by spectrophotometric method or by use of radioactive substrates. The enzymatic activity is equally distributed between mitochondrial and microsomal fractions verified by electronic microscopy. The specific activity is comparable in both fractions, as well as the optimal pH and the Km for NAD and for the substrates. The delta5-3beta Hut optimal pH, specific activity and sensitivity to the inhibitory action of various steroids are different when C19 and C21 steroids are used as substrates. Estrogens and cyclic AMP have also an inhibitory action on the oxidation of C21 steroids. Treatment of microsomal or mitochondrial membranes with phospholipase A releases fatty acids (mainly arachidonic) and decreases the enzymatic activity. "Adsorbtion" of the fatty acids on bovine serum albumin partially reactivates the delta5-3beta HSDH.
The effect of different dilutions with heparin solutions or saline on blood PCO2, pH and standard bicarbonate was investigated. Blood was first equilibrated to give about 40 or 60 mmHg PCO2. The solutions were in equilibrium with room air. The effect on blood PCO2 etc. could be fully explained by the dilution with a medium having a much lower PCO2. Thus, correction of the heparin solution to pH 7.40 and PCO2 40 mmHg eliminated the effect on PCO2, pH and standard bicarbonate. With ordinary procedure for blood heparinization (about 2% dilution) the effect is practically negligible.
The cells of yeast P. guilliermondii contain specific p-nitrophenyl phosphatase (pNPPase), the level of which depends on the cells supply with inorganic phosphorus. Partially purified enzyme is activated by ions Mg2+, Co2+ and somewhat weaker -- by ions Fe2+. With the presence of Mg2+ the enzyme activity is inhibited by ions Cd2+, Zn2+, f-, Be2+, Cu2+, Mn2+, Ca2+, MoO42-, Fe3+, Fe2+, inorganic phosphate as well as by EDTA. A mixture ions Be2+ and F- causes a complete inhibition of the activity. Ions K+ and Na+ inhibit to some extent the enzymic activity, ATP removes the inhibitory effect of monovalent cations. Km of pNPPase is equal to 3.3-10(-4) M, the molecular weight determined by the method of gelfiltration is 60 000. The enzyme is the most active at 50 degrees C and pH 9,5 PNPPase does not manifest the phosphotranspherase activity in tris-HC1-buffer.
Three active fractions of ATP desaminase from Actinomyces N4 of type Antibioticus were obtained by gel filtration through Sephadex G-200. Some properties of each fraction were studied: effect of pH and Mg2+, substrate specificity, effect of pH on Km. The enzyme studied could be used for preparation of ITP, IDP, IMP, inosine and hypoxantine.
Optimal activity of RNAase from brain ribosomal fraction was observed at pH 5.4 and pH 7.9. After alimentary and conditioned-alimentary stimulation content of rRNA was significantly increased in brain, but the RNAase activity was decreased more than two-fold. After conditioned-alimentary inhibition content of rRNA was slightly decreased as compared to experiments with alimentary and conditioned-alimentary stimulation, but it was distinctly higher than in control. As compared with alimentary stimulation in the conditioned-alimentary stimulation the RNAase activity was increased at pH 5.4 and decreased at pH 7.9.
In a period of lowest day activity of tyrosine aminotransferase, within 6-8 days after bilatheral adrenalectomy, the enzyme activity was decreased by about 20% as compared with an adequate control. At the same time, within a day and seven days after hypophisectomy, in rat liver tissue the enzyme activity was increased, approximately two-fold as compared with the normal state. Within four hrs after intraperitoneal administration into intact fasting rats at a dose of 2-2.5 g per 1 kg of body weight D-cycloserine and its dimer caused an induction of tyrosine aminotransferase by 75% and 180%, respectively. Induction of the enzyme by D-cycloserine and its dimer was inhibited by actinomycin D; the phenomenon was not observed in adrenalectomized rats. Within a day after hypophisectomy D-cycloserine did not cause the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase in rat liver tissue; to the contrary, the dimer of D-cycloserine caused induction of the enzyme, comparable to the ACTH effect, in liver tissue of hypophisectomized rats.
Microsomal complexes of electron transfer were resistant to typical inhibitors of mitochondrial pathway of electron transport. In oxidation of NADP.H2 there were at least three point of molecular O2 reduction: NADP.H2-specific flavoprotein, Fe2+ participating in reactions of peroxidation of unsaturated fatty acids and cytochrome P-450. Efficiency of cytochrome P-450 inhibitors could not be evaluated by polarography as in the pathway several sites of molecular O2 activation were observed. In oxidation of NADP.H2 estimation of the rate of electron transfer reactions was carried out by monitoring of velocity of O2 absorption in presence of EDTA (inhibitor of the reaction of peroxidation) because about 50% of the total oxygen were utilized only in the process where NADP.H2 was oxidized. NAD.H2 oxidation, inhibited with EDTA, was activated by addition of Ca2+.
The influence of temperature on activity assays of the isoenzymes of L-aspartic aminotransferase in described. For this purpose, isolated human isoenzymes were added to inactivated serum. Half-saturation constants were determined at 17.8 degrees C, 25 degrees C, 30 degrees C, and 37 degrees C, and the substrate saturation and pH curves were recorded. The cytoplasmatic (c) and mitochondrial (m) GOT showed temperature-dependent differences in the half-saturation constants for the substrates L-aspartate and 2-oxoglutarate. For both isoenzymes pH 7.4 is considered the optimum regardless of the temperature of measurement, and Tris-HCl is the optimal buffer. In the Arrhenius plot there is a bent at 27 degrees C for both isoenzymes. Thermal denaturation as a possible reason for this deviation from the linearity in the Arrhenius plot could be ruled out.
1. Injections of carrageenin (1,25 mg/kg i.v.) from the 1st to the 3rd day and then each 2nd or 3rd day inhibited paw swelling in adjuvant arthritis of the rat during the time of treatment. Injections from the 11th to the 15th day were ineffective. The level of plasma kininogen was slightly decreased but the total complement serum level was significantly lowered. 2,5 and 3 mg carrageenin/kg respectively were toxic after repeated injections. After a single administration the levels of plasma kininogen and of total serum complement were decreased by 50% although paw swelling was not affected. 2. Pentosane polysulfoester (25 mg/kg i.v.) did not influence paw swelling despite daily administration from the 1st to the 17th day. Heparin (10 000 IE/kg i.v.) was likewise ineffective. 3. Single or repeated injections of compound 48/80 (0,125-0,5 mg/kg i.v.; 1-5 mg/kg i.p.; 3-6 mg/kg s.c.), reserpine (0,2 mg/kg i.p.), cyproheptadine (5 mg/kg i.v.), bromolysergic acid diethylamide (2 x 2 mg/kg i.v.) or metiamide (10 mg/kg i.v.) were without effect on paw swelling. Neither did compound 48/80 effect the complement serum level. 4. Daily administration of chloropromazine (4-10 mg/kg p.o.) or of promethazine (10-15 mg/kg s.c. or p.o.) inhibited paw swelling in the first phase of adjuvant arthritis but not in the second one. 5. The soybean trypsin inhibitor (15 mg/kg i.v.) inhibited paw swelling significantly up to the 4th day, the Kunitz inhibitor (25 000 E/kg i.v.) was ineffective. 6. The content of prostaglandin E of the inflamed paws was increased threefold in both phases of arthritis. The results are discussed with regard to the putative role of mediators of inflammation (histamine, serotonin, kinins, prostaglandins, lysosomal enzymes, lymphokines, complement).
Treatment with neuraminidase decreased the activity of Na+,K+-activated Mg2+-adenosine triphosphatase in plasma membranes isolated from experimental granulation tissue but not that of 5\'-nucleotidase or leucine-beta-naphthylamidase. A temporary lowering of the pH of the plasma membrane suspension to 2-3 inactivated all three enzymes, which remained inactive after the pH had been readjusted to 7.4. Addition of dextran preparations to the membrane suspension decreased the activity of adenosine triphosphatase. Ethanol (0.4%) had a similar effect. These marker enzymes of plasma membranes were not affected by additions of hyaluronate, chondroitin sulfate, protein polysaccharide or soluble collagen. Serotonin stimulated the adenosine triphosphatase activity slightly. About 10-20% of the protein in the plasma membrane preparation was extracted with EDTA. This "fuzzy coat" fraction yielded a distinct gel-electrophoretic protein pattern. Hyaluronidase was not helpful in cleaving this surface layer from the plasma membranes.
In order to study the relationship between arterial PCO2 and cerebral blood flow (CBF) in hypothermia, the body temperature of artifically ventilated rats was decreased to 22 degreesC, and changes in CBF were evaluated from arteriovenous differences in oxygen content (AVDO2) at PaCO2 values of 15, 30, 40 and 60 mm Hg. The results were compared to those obtained at normal body temperature (37 degrees C) over the PaCO2 range 15-60 mm Hg. Separate experiments were performed to evaluate CBF and CMRO2 at 22 degrees C and a PaCO2 of 15 mm Hg, using an inert gas technique for CBF. The tissue contents of phosphocreatine, ATP, ADP, AMP and lactate were measured in hypothermic animals at PaCO2 values of 15, 30 and 60 mm Hg. The results showed that changes in CBF were of the same relative magnitude in hypothermia and normothermia when PaCO2 was increased from about 35 to about 60 mm Hg. However, with a decrease in PaCO2 the reduction in CBF was much more pronounced in hypothermia, and at PaCO2 15 Mm Hg CBF was less then 20% of the value measured in normothermic and normocapnic animals. The results of the metabolite measurements gave no evidence of tissue hypoxia in spite of the pronounced reduction in CBF. Although the results demonstrate that the brain of a hypothermic animal is protected against the harmful effects of a lowered CBF, it may not warrant recommending hyperventilation in clinical cases of hypothermia, especially not in patients with arteriosclerosis or cerebrovascular diseases.
The distribution and classification of histamine receptors in mammalian and avian tissues have been summarized in Tables 1-4. It is evident that histamine receptors are present on a number of morphologically distinct cell types and the proportion of cells bearing H1- and H2-receptors varies not only with the species but also with the cell source. The pharmacological receptors mediating mepyramine-sensitive histamine responses have been defined as H1-receptors. Receptors mediating mepyramine-resistant, but burimamide or metiamide-sensitive histamine responses have been classified as H2-receptors. Histamine responses mediated via H2-receptors seem to involve the adenylcyclase system resulting in elevation of intracellular cyclic-AMP level, which is susceptible to burimamide blockade but insensitive to beta-adrenergic blocking agents. This mode of action of histamine involving H2-receptors and the adenyl cyclase system has been shown to stimulate the mammalian heart; promote gastric acid secretion; inhibit antigen-induced histamine release from leucocytes and inhibit lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity. It can further be concluded that both H1- and H2-receptors are widely distributed throughout the animal body in the gastro-intestinal, reproductive, respiratory and cardiovascular systems, nervous system and on mast cells and blood leucocytes. In these tissues, histamine receptors play an important role in physiological, immunological and immunopathological processes. Interaction of histamine with both H1- and H2-receptors in varying proportions modulates the overall manifestation of cardiovascular and respiratory syndromes during certain immunopathological conditions (e.g. inflammation, allergy and anaphylaxis). Histamine receptors also appear to play and important role in the development of immuno-competence and immunity.
Several T. brucei-subgroup strains isolated from game were investigated with the blood incubation infectivity test (BIIT) and in human volunteers. Original isolates and their clones derivatives were tested. In order to check the validity of the BIIT, volunteer tested clones were used under modified BIIT conditions. Inoculation of different trypanosome strains into volunteers yielded positive parasitaemia for original isolates from lion, hyaena, and Coke\'s hartebeest. Changing antibody titers during the course of infection in the volunteers were checked with the indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFT). The BIIT WAs reliable (consistently positive) for cloned T. b. rhodesiense. When testing T. b. brucei, the BIIT results depended on the number of incubated parasites and on the parasitaemia peak number the tested trypanosomes derived from. It was further shown that the in vivo part of the BIIT is actually essential for the complete neutralization of T. b. brucei induced by the action of human plasma. Tests with trypanosomes originating from experimentally mixed T. b. rhodesiense and brucei infections gave inconsistent results. On the other hand, pure populations mixed in vitro-prior to incubation for BIIT-revealed results depending on the proportion of the 2 species: up to 20% T. b. rhodesiense gave negative, higher concentrations consistently positive results.
Sera from rabbits immunized with L-16 measles virus absorded with monkey blood cells; kaolin and blood cells; and MnCl2 and heparin were examined in haemagglutination inhibition (HI) and neutralization tests. Kaolin and MnCl2 adsorbed primarily HI IgM antibodies from the early immunization period. The adsorbents used had no influence on HI and neutralization IgG antibodies. Human convalescent serum gave similar results, i.e. only IgG antibodies were found and they were not affected by kaolin and MnCl2 with heparin.
The degree of serological relatedness of three isolates of bean yellow mosaic virus (BYMV) was studied. One common antigenic group (m) was demonstrated in all 3 isolates. In addition, another antigenic group (a) was demonstrated in the isolate FvM1. This group was absent from the isolates TpM3 and TpM11, in which the antigenic group n was found. Antisera to the 3 isolates contained the corresponding antibody groups. The antibody group (M) shared by all 3 BYMV isolates was present in the FvM1 antiserum in a level only a little higher than the second antibody group (A). Antisera to TpM3 and TpM11 isolates showed only a low titre of M antibody, while the second antibody group (N) reached titres from 512 to 1024. Cross-absorption tests revealed serological identity of both isolates of the "necrotic type" (TpM3 and TpM11) and allowed to estimate the degree of their serological relatedness to representatives of the "mosaic type" isolates of BYMV (FvM1).
The effects of pH variation on ionic exchange and mechanical function were studied in the arterially perfused rat and rabbit septa. The pH and PCO2 of the control perfusate were 7.40 and 39 mmHg, respectively. In the rabbit septum a metabolic acidosis (pH equals 6.82, PCO2 equals 39 mmHg) caused a loss of 16% of control tension in 12 min. Na+ and K+ exchange were unaltered. A comparable respiratory acidosis (pH equals 6.81, PCO2 equals 159 mmHg) caused a 51% loss of tension in 2 min. Na+ exchange was unaltered but K+ efflux fell from 8.9 +/- 0.6 (mean +/- SE) to 4.9 +/- 0.3 mmol/kg dry wt per min (P less than 0.001, n equals 10). A net gain of K+ of 16.9 +/- 1.7 (n equals 14) mmol/kg dry wt occurred and was attributable to a delayed fall in K+ influx relative to efflux over 15 min. The net gain could not be mimicked by epinephrine administration or blocked by propranolol and was absent in the beating rat septum and the quiescent rabbit septum. These results suggest that the net uptake of K+, which appears to be dependent on a period of depolarization, and the changes of contractility are controlled by the H+ ion concentration at a cellular site whose exchange with the extracellular space is characterized by a considerable restriction of diffusion. Changes of contractility are not related to the net uptake of K+.
It has been established that H+ secretion can be maintained in frog stomach in the absence of exogenous CO2 by using a nutrient bathing fluid containing 25 mM H2PO4 (pH approximately equal to 4.5) or by lowering the pH of a nonbuffered nutrient solution to about 3.0-3.6. Exogenous CO2 in the presence of these nutrient solutions uniformly caused a marked decrease in H+ secretion, PD, adn short-circuit current (Isc) and an increase in transmucosal resistance (R). Elevation of nutrient [k+] to 83 mM reduced R significantly but transiently without change in H+ when nutrient pH less than 5.0, whereas R returned to base line and H+ increased when nutrient pH greater than 5.0. Acidification of the nutrient medium in the presence of exogenous CO2 results in inhibition of the secretory pump, probably by decreasing intracellular pH, and also interferes with conductance at the nutrient membrane. Removal of exogenous CO2 from standard bicarbonate nutrient solution reduced by 50% the H+, PD, and Isc without change in R; K+-free nutrient solutions reverse these changes in Isc and PD but not in H+. The dropping PD and rising R induced by K+-free nutrient solutions in 5% CO2 - 95% O2 are returned toward normal by 100% O2. Our findings support an important role for exogenous CO2 in maintaining normal acid-base balance in frog mucosa by acting as an acidifying agent.
Effects of sodium nitrate were compared with sodium chloride loading on transport of electrolytes by the nephron. Maximal levels of free water clearance/clomerular filtration rate (CH2O/GFR) averaged 8.4% with nitrate loading and 14.4% with saline loading. Since ethacrynic acid and chlorothiazide exert their major natriuretic effect in the distal nephron, the increment in Na ad Cl reabsorbed beyond the proximal tubule. The administration of these agents resulted in an increase in fractional sodium excretion (CNa/GFR) of 21.1%, urinary sodium excretion (UNaV) of 1,126 mueq/min, and urinary chloride excretion (UClV) of 848 mueq/min during nitrate loading compared with an increase in CNa/GFR of 37.6%, UNaV of 2,362 mueq/min, and UClV of 2,397 mueq/min during saline loading. The smaller diuretic-induced increment in Na and Cl excretion in the nitrate studies suggests, as do the hydrated studies, that less Cl and Na are reabsorbed in the distal nephron during nitrate than saline loading. At every level of UNaV, fractional bicarbonate reabsorption was higher, urine pH was lower, and urinary potassium excretion (UKV) was higher in the nitrate studies. Thus, compared with saline loading, sodium nitrate decreases chloride and sodium reabsorption in the distal nephron. The higher hydrogen and potassium secretion in the nitrate studies may be consequent to the decreased ability of the distal nephron to reabsorb chloride.
We have recently shown that 5% CO2/95% O2 in the serosal bathing solution, with 100% O2 in the mucosal solution, results in CO2-diffusion limitation of acid secretion in bullfrog gastric mucosa. Changing to 10% CO2/90% 02 on both surfaces doubles the acid secretory rate. We calculate that, were the rate of oxygen consumption to increase significantly as a result of secretory stimulation, the tissue would now be oxygen limited. This prediction is tested by raising the P02 by increasing the total pressure in a hyperbaric chamber. Since no change in acid secretory rate or potential difference was observed upon changing from PO2 = 0.9 to PO2 = 1.9 atm, we conclude that the tissue is not O2 limited at normal pressure. Decreasing PO2 below 0.9 atm, by contrast, decreases the acid secretory rate and raises both PD and resistance. We infer that the rate of oxygen consumption did not rise significantly when acid secretion was increased by supplying sufficient CO2.
Stripped duodenal mucosa of rabbits was mounted in Ussing chambers containing a Ringer solution gassed with 100% O2. The disappearance of acid or alkali from the mucosal solution of short-circuited tissue was measured with a pH stat while the serosal pH was kept at 7.4. The duodenum rapidly disposed of both acid and alkali; neither property was altered by gassing with N2 while iodoacetate was in the perfusing solutions. Prevention of release of CO2 from the mucosal chamber obliterated the early rapid phase of acid disposal by the mucosa while a similar maneuver in the serosal chamber increased the appearance of serosal acid without altering the rate of acid disposal. Gut sacs of rabbit duodenum in vitro and in vivo showed a positive correlation between acid disposal and the rate of luminal CO2 production. While acid disposal progressively decreased with time for the in vitro gut sacs, the in vivo gut sac showed no fatigue in this respect. Luminal acidification in the Ussing chamber was associated with a profound reduction in short-circuit current (Isc), partially reversible by elevation of the mucosal pH but not by luminal glucose. Our data suggest that acid disposal occurs in part by intraluminal neutralization and in part by diffusion into the mucosa.
The cerebral haemodynamic effects of CT 1341 also called Alfatesin, an anaesthetic steroid, were studied in the cat by means of the Xenon 133 isotopic clearance method to measure the cerebral blood flow. The injection or intravenous drip of Alfatesin in animals whose arterio PCO2 was kept unchanged induced a cerebral blood flow diminution, the importance of which was proportional to the injected dose. The cerebral blood flow fall was partly due to a cerebral arterio vasoconstriction evidenced by direct observation of the cortex vessels and by a diminution of the intracranial presure. During a deep anaesthesia induced by Alfatesin with recurrent burst suppression, there was a loss of cerebral blood flow autoregulation while the CO2 cerebral vascular reactivity was maintained. This last result accounts for the increase in cerebral blood flow parallel to the hypercapnia that could be observed among animals breathing freely.
The Picardy regional S.A.M.U. implanted in Amiens, has participated in the implantation of antennae of the S.M.U.R. whereby aid can be given accident cases on the northern motorway. After a brief historical review of the creation of these antennae, and presentation of what exists in the sections of the northern motorway not in Picardy, the means of the regional S.A.M.U. are presented, and the way it which it functions, with regards to specific problems concerning medical aid on the motorway. The results of the S.M.U.R. activities are presented and discussed. The necessity for good coordination of medical aid, the fundamental role of the regional S.A.M.U., is particularly emphasized.
The nasal resistance participates for almost 50 p. 100 in the resistance of airways (RVA) of the new-borns whose respiration is mainly nasal. The possibility of an oral respiration in case of partial or total occlusion of nasal way is almost null. In order to determinate the effects of a naso-gastric suction of the RVA 10 normal infants (3 prematures, 7 new-born babies) were studied by plethysmographia. The presence of the suction brought a systematic and significant increase of RVA (the coefficient of transformation = 1,318 +/- 0,21 p is less than 0,001). In the nine infants for whom the resistant work (WR) was estimated is increased proportionaly to the increase of RVA (deltaRVA) (coef. of transformation = 1,44 +/- 0,44, p is less than 0,001). However the proportional increase of WR is not systematic superior for 3 prematures and 1 new-born baby and similar in one case. These variations can be explained by various adjustments of the V. The increase of work imposed by the presence of a naso-gastric suction cannot be underestimated in particular for the prematures.
Analysis of our experience confirms in the domain of the newborn the fundamental notion of the Emergency medical call. The EMC has two objectives: 1--Emergency treatment before the patient is moved, and the correction of failing vital functions by a medical team skilled in problems of neonates. 2--Transportation of the neonate in a stable condition, to the Intensive Care unit. The quality of such transportation depends closely upon the quality of the medical care given and upon organisation. It can only be carried out in the context of a system coordinated by a "coordinating physician" (e.g. SAMU 94). This coordinating physician has responsibility for logistics, telephone coordination, and application of the call procedure as rapidly as possible. From a logistical point of view, only coordination between:--SAMU-SMUR;--Medical team of the Intensive care unit;--Requesting service make possible the provision and quality of continuous supplies of oxygen, warmth, sugar - all under aseptic conditions, indispensable to the quality of survival of the neonate. In addition, we feel it essential--that the delay before the call is answered be as brief as possible;--that the call should be dealt with by a mixed team, including at least one physician experienced in neonatal problems;--that the choice of vehicle used for transportation should be better adapted to the situation. This choice is the responsibility of the coordinating physician, who should base his decisions on two fundamental requirements:--rapidity of dealing with the call;--personal safety of those involved. This without losing sight of--Prevention of perinatal problems lies part with the detection of high risk pregnancies, with the aim of arranging delivery in specialised "mother and baby" centres where close collaboration between obstetrician and paediatrician is assured.--The development of transportation of the "high-risk" neonate, which is so costly in manpower and equipment, depends closely upon general concepts of health care in France, which should be aimed at:--the prevention of prematury;--the detection of high risk pregnancies;--the development of mother and baby centres.
Antibiotic-resistant shigella are increasingly prevalent. Lactulose, a non-absorbable disaccharide, was investigated as an alternative therapy for shigella infection on the hypothesis that the short-chain fatty acids (inhibitory to shigella) resulting from metabolism of lactulose by normal colonic flora would diminish shigella excretion. A long-term antibiotic-refractory carrier (large bowel) excreting 10(4) to 10(7)Shigella sonnei/g of feces was given two courses of lactulose (of 24 and 16 days duration). During lactulose therapy, excretion of shigella was greatly diminished (24-day course) or suppressed below detectable levels (16-day course), but returned to pretreatment levels upon discontinuation of lactulose. The volunteers who developed induced shigellosis during an efficacy test of oral Shigella flexneri 2a vaccine were randomly given oral ampicillin, lactulose, or placebo in double-blind fashion. Daily rectal cultures were taken. After 4 days of therapy, cultures were still positive in four out of four men on lactulose, three of three on placebo and none of three on ampicillin. Mean stool pH of men receiving lactulose (6.1) was significantly lower than those getting ampicillin (7.4), P &lt; 0.01, or placebo (7.0), P &lt; 0.05. Only in the lactulose group was mean stool pH during therapy significantly decreased compared with the level off therapy (6.1 versus 7.1), P &lt; 0.02. Lactulose shows promise for the treatment of shigella carriers but appears ineffective in treatment of acute shigellosis.
Various branched fatty acids, particularly those of iso-configuration, have been shown to possess fungistatic and bacteriostatic properties. On the basis of their swelling effect on hyphae of Fusarium roseum it was suggested that this is due to an increase in the permeability of the plasma membrane. The solubilization of fatty acids in membranes should be expected to be influenced by the degree of dissociation and the presence of counter ions. Therefore, the effects of pH and K(+), Na(+), and Ca(2+) ions were studied. It is demonstrated that the presence of the univalent ions, Na(+) and K(+), markedly enhances the fungistatic effect of iso-tetradecanoic acid, whereas the opposite effect is noted for the divalent ion, Ca(2+). The effects are particularly pronounced at high pH. Furthermore, the antimicrobial effect obtained from the combination of fatty acid and tetramethylthiuramdisulfide is significantly enhanced in the presence of 0.1 and 0.2% KCl.
Citrate synthase activity of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was determined by a radioactive assay procedure and the reaction product, 14C-citric acid, was identified by chromatographic techniques. ATP, d-ATP, GTP and NADH were most inhibitory to the citrate synthase invitro. The activity was inhibited to a lesser extent by ADP, UTP, and NADP whereas, AMP and CTP were much less inhibitory. NADH, like NAD, glutamic acid, glutamine, arginine, ornithine, proline, aspartic acid and alpha-ketoglutarate exhibited no inhibition. These results have been discussed in the light of the role of citrate synthase for the energy metabolism and glutamic acid biosynthesis.
The effect of initial pH on aflatoxin production by Aspergillus parasiticus NRRL 2999 was examined in a semisynthetic medium. Maximal growth, aflatoxin production, and aflatoxin production per unit of growth occurred at initial pH levels of 5.0, 6.0, and 7.0 respectively. Initial pH levels less than pH 6.0 favored production of the B toxins, whereas levels greater than pH 6.0 favored production of the G toxins.
A simple, nonaseptic, low-cast process for the conversion of cassava, a starchy tropical root crop, into microbial protein for use as animal feed was sought. Screening tests culminated in the isolation of a thermotolerant, amylase-producing mold, designated I-21, which was identified as Aspergillus fumigatus. The optimum pH for protein synthesis was 3-5, but the optimum temperature was less than the desired temperature (larger than or equal to 45 C) required for a nonaseptic fermentation. A. fumigatus I-21 and its asporogenous mutant I-21A grew equally well in a medium prepared from whole cassava roots with a mean protein doubling time at 45 C and pH 3.5 of 3.5 h. In batch culture, approximately 4% carbohydrate, supplied as whole cassava, could be feremented in 20 h, giving a final yield of 24 g of dry product, containing 36.9% crude protein, per liter. The conversion of carbohydrate used to crude protein was 22.1%. When determined as amino acids, the protein content of the product, which contained cassava bark and other unfermented residues, was 27.1%. With urea as the nitrogen source, no pH control was necessary. Preliminary data indicated that medium prepared from whole cassava roots was inhibitory to the mold unless the cassava pulp was heated to 70 C immediately after being ground. Heating to 70 C was required to gelatinize the starch and permit its complete utilization.
Most-probable-number (MPN) and membrane filtration (mF) techniques were evaluated with respect to selectivity, sensitivity, and efficiency in recovering Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains in hospital fluids and extramural water environments. Known numbers of cells of a naturally occurring strain of P. aeruginosa maintained in distilled water or cells subcultured on Standard Methods agar were added to test samples containing various types and levels of background microbial contamiants. Environmental samples containing unknown numbers of P. aeruginosa strains also were tested. Asparagine and acetamide broths were employed as presumptive media in MPN tests, and mPA and Pseudosel agars were used in mF assays. Statistical analyses of data showed the superiority and comparability of the asparagine-MPN and mPA-mF systems. Greater precision and accuracy were consistently obtained in either assay technique by the use of naturally occurring cells as test organisms. The type of filter and nature of diluents employed, as well as pH of assay media, were found to greatly influence both recovery and developemnt of characteristic colonial morphology in the mPA-mF system.
The relationship between muscle surface pH (pHM) and the arterial-venous oxygen content difference (AVO2D) was studied in 4 patients undergoing reconstructive arterial surgery and in 6 patients undergoing acute normovolemic hemodilution. There was a consistent inverse relation between pHM in the ischemic lower extremity and the femoral AVO2D before, during and after aortic clamping. There was also an inverse relation between AVO2D and pHM during hemodilution. These data confirm that pHM is a reliable indicator of tissue perfusion and correlates with the AVO2D.
The specificity of Ca++ for the interaction of beta adrenergic agonists with their receptors in rabbit right atrial muscle was evaluated. This was accomplished by substituting Ca++ by an equimolar concentration of Sr++. Dose-response curves which demonstrate the effect of norepinephrine and isoproterenol on the rate of electrical activity in the presence of Ca++ or Sr++ were made. In addition, the antagonistic action of propranolol (1 X 10(-7) M) in a Ca++-containing or Sr++-containing medium was determined. The results clearly demonstrate that Sr++ can effectively substitute for Ca++ in maintaining electrical and mechanical activity in cardiac muscle. Also, norepinephrine and isoproterenol can increase the rate of electrical activity in a Ca++ or Sr++-containing medium. This effect of these beta agonists is mediated through the beta-receptors since propranolol effectively blocked their action. It appears that Ca++ per se is not required for beta agonist or antagonist-receptor interaction in cardiac muscle. The results are discussed in relation to the dependency on extracellular Ca++ for beta agonists to cause a change in the rate of electrical activity after receptor occupancy.
The action of a number of compounds able to react with thiols was tested on guinea-pig hearts perfused at constant pressure. The SH reagents used were NaNO2, oxidized glutathione, cystamine, diamide, 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, nitroglycerol, sodium nitroferricyanide and HgCl2. 6,6\'-Dithiodinicotinic acid, an SH reagent that does not penetrate the cell, produced no effect. All the other SH reagents produced an increase in coronary flow. All except oxidized glutathione and nitroglycerol increased the heart rate. The increase in heart rate and oxygen consumption could be completely blocked by dichloroisoproterenol; the increase in coronary flow was not affected. Difluorodinitrobenzene, diamide, cystamine and NaNO2 significantly decreased the acid-soluble thiol content of the heart. For these compounds, there was a significant correlation between the decrease in coronary flow and the decrease in thiols. We conclude that in the isolated heart, most SH reagents, if used at the appropriate concentration, will increase the heart rate, probably by relaasing catecholamines. They will also decrease the coronary resistance, probably by a direct effect on the coronary vessels.
